# Code of Conduct

  - [Summary](#Summary)
  - [Code of Conduct](#Code-of-Conduct)
    - [Anti-Harassment Policy](#Anti-Harassment-Policy)
  - [Handling Incidents](#Attendee-Procedure-for-Incident-Handling)
    - [Attendee Procedure](#Attendee-Procedure-for-Incident-Handling)
    - [Staff Procedure](#Staff-Procedure-for-Incident-Handling)
  - [Enforcement](#Enforcement)
  - [Contact Information](#Contact-Information)
  - [Suicide Awareness and Prevention](#Suicide-Awareness-and-Prevention)

## Summary

Chef is dedicated to providing an inclusive and harassment-free experience for
anyone who participates in events that are organized or hosted by Chef – whether
that is ChefConf, Community Summits, MeetUps, training, or other events – and we
do not tolerate harassment of participants in any form.

We value the participation of each member of the Chef community and want all
attendees to have an enjoyable and fulfilling experience. Accordingly, all
attendees are expected to show respect and courtesy to other attendees
throughout the event and at all related events, whether officially sponsored by
Chef or not.

To make clear what is expected, all delegates/attendees, speakers, exhibitors,
organizers, and volunteers at any Chef event are required to conform to the
following Code of Conduct. Organizers will enforce this code throughout the
event.

## Code of Conduct

Chef is dedicated to providing a harassment-free experience for everyone,
regardless of gender, sexual orientation, disability, physical appearance, body
size, race, veteran status, or religion. We do not tolerate harassment of event
participants in any form.

All communication should be appropriate for a professional audience including
people of many different backgrounds. Sexual language and imagery is not
appropriate for any event venue, including talks.

Be kind to others. Do not insult or put down other attendees. Behave
professionally. Remember that harassment and sexist, racist, or exclusionary
jokes are not appropriate for any event.

### Anti-Harassment Policy

Harassment comes in many forms, including but not limited to:
  - Offensive comments related to gender, sexual orientation, disability,
    physical appearance, body size, race, veteran status, or religion
  - Posting/Exposing sexually explicit or violent images
  - Deliberate (or implied) intimidation
  - Stalking or persistent following
  - Intrusive or otherwise unwanted photography or recording
  - Sustained disruption of talks or other events
  - Inappropriate physical contact or unwelcome sexual attention
  - Posting (or threatening to post) other people’s personally identifying
    information (“doxing”).
  - Advocation for, or encouraging, any of the above behavior

Participants asked to stop any harassing behavior are expected to comply
immediately. Further unacceptable behavior will result in escalating sanctions.

Exhibitors in the expo hall, sponsor or vendor booths, or similar activities are
also subject to the anti-harassment policy. In particular, exhibitors should not
use sexualized images, activities, or other material. Booth staff (including
volunteers) should not use sexualized clothing/uniforms/costumes, or otherwise
create an unprofessional environment.

Be careful in the words that you choose. Remember that sexist, racist, and other
exclusionary jokes can be offensive to those around you. If you think your
conversation is making another community member uncomfortable, try to make
amends and move forward.

Event staff will be happy to help participants contact hotel/venue security or
local law enforcement, provide escorts, or otherwise assist those experiencing
harassment to feel safe for the duration of the event. We value your attendance.

## Attendee Procedure for Incident Handling

This procedure has been adopted from the Ada Initiative’s guide titled
"Conference anti-harassment/Responding to Reports".

All of our staff are informed of the Code of Conduct policy and guide for
handling harassment at the event. Report the harassment incident (preferably in
writing) to an event staff member. All reports are confidential. Please do not
disclose public information about the incident until the staff have had
sufficient time in which to address the situation. This is as much for your
safety and protection as it is the other attendees. When reporting the event to
staff, try to gather as much information as available but do not interview
people about the incident. Staff will assist you in writing the
report/collecting information.

The important information consists of:

  - Identifying information (name/badge number) of the participant doing the
    harassing
  - The behavior that was in violation
  - The approximate time of the behavior
  - The circumstances surrounding the incident
  - Other people involved in the incident

The staff is well informed on how to deal with the incident and how to further
proceed with the situation.

If everyone is presently physically safe, involve law enforcement or security
only at a victim's request. If you do feel your safety in jeopardy please do not
hesitate to contact local law enforcement by dialing 911. If you do not have a
cell phone, you can use any hotel phone or simply ask a staff member.

Event staff requests that they be your first resource when reporting an
incident, so that they may enforce the Code of Conduct and take quick action
toward a resolution.

If at all possible, all reports should be made directly to the individuals
listed under [Contact Information](#Contact-Information).

## Staff Procedure for Incident Handling

This procedure has been adopted from the Ada Initiative’s guide titled
"Conference anti-harassment/Responding to Reports".

### Gather Details

In addition to understanding our Code of Conduct Policy, also have a good
understanding of what is expected from an attendee that wants to report a
harassment incident. These guidelines can be found in the [Attendee Procedure
for Incident Handling](#Attendee-Procedure-for-Incident-Handling).

Try to get as much detail of the incident in written form from the reporter. If
you cannot, transcribe it yourself as it was told to you. The important
information to gather includes the following:

  - Identifying information (name/badge number) of the participant doing the
    harassing
  - The behavior that was in violation
  - The approximate time of the behavior
  - The approximate time the report was made
  - The circumstances surrounding the incident
  - Other people involved in the incident

### Prepare an Initial Response

Prepare an initial response to the incident. The initial response is very
important and will set the tone for the event.

Depending on the severity/details of the incident, please follow these
guidelines:
  - If there is any general threat to attendees or the safety of anyone
    including event staff is in doubt, summon security or police
  - Offer the victim a private place to sit.
  - Ask "Is there a friend or trusted person who you would like to be with you?"
    (if so, arrange for someone to fetch this person)
  - Ask them "how can I help?"
  - Provide them with your list of emergency contacts if they need help later
  - If everyone is presently physically safe, involve law enforcement or
    security only at a victim’s request

There are also some guidelines as to what <b>not</b> to do as an initial
response:

  - Do not overtly invite them to withdraw the complaint or mention that
    withdrawal is OK. This suggests that you want them to do so, and is
    therefore coercive. "If you're OK with it [pursuing the complaint]" suggests
    that you are by default pursuing it and is not coercive.
  - Do not ask for their advice on how to deal with the complaint. This is a
    staff responsibility.
  - Do not offer them input into penalties. This is the staff’s responsibility.

### After Reporting

Once something is reported to a staff member, immediately meet with the event
chair and/or event manager. The main objectives of this meeting is to find out
the following:

  - What happened?
  - Are we doing anything about it?
  - Who is doing those things?
  - When are they doing them?

After the staff meeting and discussion, have a staff member (preferably the
event chair or event manager if available) communicate with the alleged
harasser. Make sure to inform them of what has been reported about them.

Allow the alleged harasser to give their side of the story to the staff. After
this point, if the report stands, let the alleged harasser know what actions
will be taken against them.

### Things to Consider

Some things for the staff to consider when dealing with Code of Conduct
offenders:

  - Warning the harasser to cease their behavior and that any further reports
    will result in sanctions
  - Requiring that the harasser avoid any interaction with, and physical
    proximity to, their victim for the remainder of the event
  - Ending a talk that violates the policy early
  - Not publishing the video or slides of a talk that violated the policy
  - Not allowing a speaker who violated the policy to give (further) talks at
    the event now or in the future
  - Immediately ending any event volunteer responsibilities and privileges the
    harasser holds
  - Requiring that the harasser not volunteer for future events your
    organization runs (either indefinitely or for a certain time period)
  - Requiring that the harasser immediately leave the event and not return
  - Banning the harasser from future events (either indefinitely or for a
    certain time period)
  - Publishing an account of the harassment and calling for the resignation of
    the harasser from their responsibilities (usually pursued by people without
    formal authority: may be called for if the harasser is the event leader, or
    refuses to stand aside from the conflict of interest, or similar, typically
    event staff have sufficient governing rights over their space that this
    isn't as useful)

Give accused attendees a place to appeal to if there is one, but in the meantime
the report stands. Keep in mind that it is not a good idea to encourage an
apology from the harasser.

### Public Announcements

It is very important how we deal with the incident publicly. Our policy is to
make sure that everyone aware of the initial incident is also made aware that it
is not according to policy and that official action has been taken – while still
respecting the privacy of individual attendees. When speaking to individuals
(those who are aware of the incident, but were not involved with the incident)
about the incident it is a good idea to keep the details out.

Depending on the incident, the event chair, or designate, may decide to make one
or more public announcements. If necessary, this will be done with a short
announcement either during the plenary and/or through other channels. No one
other than the event chair or someone delegated authority from the event chair
should make any announcements. No personal information about either party will
be disclosed as part of this process.

If some attendees were angered by the incident, it is best to apologize to them
that the incident occurred to begin with. If there are residual hard feelings,
suggest to them to write an email to the event chair or to the event
coordinator. It will be dealt with accordingly.

If at all possible, all reports should be made directly to the individuals
listed under [Contact Information](#Contact-Information).

## Enforcement

Crafting a list of punitive actions would be inadequate and incomplete. Each
incident will be dealt with on a case-by-case basis.

Our first response should always be to ensure the immediate safety and well
being of all parties involved. In the ideal case, an attempt to stop and prevent
the violation behavior would be made before any punitive action is decided.

When punitive action is warranted, one or more of the following remedies may be
used:

  - Expulsion from the space where the incident occurred with no refund
  - Removal from the space where the incident occurred for a period of time
  - Banned from the space where the incident occurred indefinitely
  - Banned from one or more upcoming in-person events

## Contact Information

If you are being harassed, notice that someone else is being harassed, or have
any other concerns, please contact a member of the event staff. Event staff
should be clearly visible. Venue staff should also be able to put you in touch
with event staff if you are uncertain who is part of the event staff.

If the matter is especially urgent, please call/contact any of these
individuals:

 - Suzanna Litwin at +1 (425) 765-6209
 - Mandi Walls at +1 (703) 582-7396

## Suicide Awareness and Prevention

Concerned about someone? Please see [here](http://www.intheforefront.org/need-help/concerned-about-someone/).

Want to learn more and help prevent suicide? See [Help Prevent Suicide with "LEARN"](http://www.intheforefront.org/wp-content/uploads/2017/09/PDT_Learn_OnePagerColor_2018_07_27.pdf).

### Global Suicide Prevention/Support Lines (All Lines open 24x7)

 - United States - National Suicide Prevention Lifeline
    - Call 1-800-273-8255
    - Available 24 hours everyday
    - Online Chat
  - Europe - List of all EMEA Countries Crisis Lines
    - [https://www.iasp.info/resources/Crisis_Centres/Europe/](https://www.iasp.info/resources/Crisis_Centres/Europe/)
  - Australia
    - [https://www.lifeline.org.au/](https://www.lifeline.org.au/)
  - Singapore
    - [https://www.sos.org.sg/](https://www.sos.org.sg/)

## Influences

This Code of Conduct was forked from the example policy from the [Geek Feminism
wiki, created by the Ada Initiative and other
volunteers](http://geekfeminism.wikia.com/wiki/Conference_anti-harassment/Policy),
which is under a Creative Commons Zero (CC0) license. It is also based on the
[Django Code of Conduct](https://www.djangoproject.com/conduct/), and the [PyCon
Code of Conduct](https://github.com/python/pycon-code-of-conduct).

## Copyright

This Code of Conduct is in the public domain. In jurisdictions that do not allow
for this, this work is available under CC0. To the extent possible under law,
the person who associated CC0 with this work has waived all copyright and
related or neighboring rights to this work.
